# Breaking Barriers: A Case Study on Coinbase's Role in Driving Cryptocurrencies Forward

## Overview and Origin
Coinbase is a digital currency exchange platform founded in October 2012 by Brian Armstrong and Fred Ehrsam. The company's primary mission is to create an open financial system consisting of the buying and selling of cryptocurrencies, such as Bitcoin, Solana, and Etherium. At the time of 2012, buying and selling cryptos required the use of complex technical systems that took a lot of understanding to operate. Armstrong and Ehrsam recognized the need to provide a user-friendly platform that would make the process simple for the common consumer. When the initial version of Coinbase was launched, users were able to purchase Bitcoin through their credit cards and bank accounts to be stored in a secure online wallet. Coinbase has since grown significiantly by offering more cryptocurrencies on their platform, as well as introducing a wide array of trading platforms, such as Coinbase Pro, and merchant services, such as Coinbase Commerce. Coinbase has received funding from many sources throughout its history, including private equity firms and venture capitalists. In May 2013, Coinbase received its first $5 million Series A investment from Union Square Ventures. This investment helped the company kickstart its adoption of more coins to be traded on the platform. In 2017, the company raised over $100 million in a Series D funding round led by Venture Partners, with participation from Battery Ventures and Draper Associates. The company then went on to raise $300 million in a Series E funding round, led by investment firm Tiger Global Management in 2018. In April 2021, Coinbase went public on the NASDAQ, becoming the first major cryptocurrency exchange to release an IPO. Overall, Coinbase has amassed over $500 million in funding from a large number of investors, and its widespread adoption has made it the most famous cryptocurrency industry in the world.

## Business Activities
Coinbase, since its incorporation in 2012, intends to solve some very major financial problems looing in the fintech world. Firstly, the company tries to solve a Security issue in cryptocurrency. Due to cryptos being a digital asset, storing them securely in a wallet can be a big problem. Coinbase offers customers with a secure plattform into which customers can secure these assets, and the company also offers several security measures. One measure includes two-factor authentication. This is a security system that requires two separate forms of identification in order to access something. A second measures includes insurance coverage that compensate customers for any assets that may have been lost due to theft or hacking. Coinbase also solves the big financial problem of volatility. Noted especially in the cryptocurrency space, volatility is a big factor that puts many investors at risk of their capital due to big swings in the market. The company offers tools to help mitigate this risk, such as: stop orders and limit orders, on the platform. These orders prevent investors from over-leveraging their account sizes, as well as getting into the market at the best possible price to maximize earning on the specific asset.
Coinbase's intended customer base includes anyone who has a strong drive to buy and sell cryptocurrencies. Its platform is designed to be both user-friendly and simple for investors of all skill levels. The company's primary customer base include investors and traders looking to store their money in cryptocurrencies, in addition to businesses that accept cryptos as a form of payment or as a medium of exchange. Coinbase makes this possible by providing its own Advanced Trading platform tools coupled with low fees and DeFi rewards, as well as offering large amounts of assets traded (400+ market pairs). On Coinbase's website, it states "Earn up to 5% APY rewards on your USDC, EHT2, DAI, ALGO, ATOM, XTZ" (Coinbase.com) which also attracts insitituional investors looking to capitalze on interest payments stored in cryptocurrency for themselves or their clients. With the rise of cryptocurrencies, the estimated total market capitlization of the industry is $835 billion, down 62% from $2.2 trillion at the end of 2021. "Approximately 110 million verified users and 245,000 ecosystem partners in over 100 countries trust Coinbase to easily and securely invest, spend, save, earn, and use crypto" (Coinbase.com). According to a report by marketsandmarkets.com, the current market size of cryptocurrency users around the world is $1.6 billion and expected to rise to $2.2 billion by 2026, growing at a CAGR of 7.1% during the forecast period.
Although there are several cryptocurrency exchanges that boast their user-friendly interfaces and diverse digital assets available to investors, Coinbase shines in its ability to offer lightning fast withdrawals for its customers unlike that of any other platform. According to a article from nerdwallet.com, "Coinbase is one of the few crypto exchanges to allow users to withdraw crypto immediately after they purchase it using fiat currency, rather than waiting several days for the payment transaction to clear" (Voigt, 2022). This is a huge relief for anyone who wants to secure they crypto as fast as possible, and it is truly a shining point for Coinbase that helps it stand out from its competitors.
Coinbase uses several up to date technological advancements and tools to provide the most efficient resources for its customers. The platform uses several products and services, including HTML5, jQuery, and Google Analytics, according to crunchbase.com. HTML5 uses a technology called WebSockets, which allow Coinbase to offer fast and real-time updates to cryptocurrency price changes to its users (devpost.com). Coinbase also uses jQuery, which is a popular JavaScript library that simplifies the scripting of HTML. Coinbase uses jQuery to allow cross-browser compatibility. This ensures that a certain website behaves in the same manner throughout several browsers, like Google Chrome and Safari. It provides a unified API for tasks that are common in theses browsers like even handling (StackShare.io). This innovation saves time in development for its developers, as well as effort for its users who use different websites to access the platform.

## Landscape
Coinbase is a platform that allows users to buy, sell, and exchange cryptocurrency with one another without the use of a "middle-man", such as a bank or any other financial instution charging fees or commissions. Therefore, Coinbase operates in the cryptocurrency domain within the digital assets industry. According to their website (coinbase.com), the company offers an additional service called Coinbase Card, which allows users to spend their crypto holdings at any merchant or ATM that accepts Visa.
The cryptocurrency domain is one the fastest growing domains in the Fintech industry over the past 10 years. No other domain has dominated the market and social media platforms quite as significantly has cryptocurrency. There are several innovations that have emerged out of the rise of this technology, one of which includes: The development of blockchain. Similar to a public ledger, all transactions are stored in a sequence of blocks, hence making up the Blockchain. A reference hash links these "blocks" together, and a "private key cryptography-based digital signature is employed at a node to intiate a transaction" (Kroll, 2013). Then, these transactions are chosen and validated by peers, making the Blockchain a peer-to-peer (P2P) network. Currently, Blockchain technology is extensively employed in economic transactions, prediction markets, the settlement of financial assets, business services, and the financial community in general" (Haferkorn and Diaz, 2014). The Blockchain has the potential to revolutionize industries even outside the scope of finance. In addition to the Blockchain, decentralized finance (DeFi) has also been making waves in the cryptocurrency industry. DeFi refers to digital assets that fully support financial services without the need of a large institution, such as a bank. Over the past 5 years, the emergence of Web3 and NFT's (non-fungible tokens) has peeked interest from investors in the cryptocurrency space. Another indicator for growth in DeFi is decentralized exchanges, which offer investors the opporunity to trade altcoins and stablecoins. In 2022, JP Morgan executed its first transaction with the Monetary Authority of Singapore using DeFi on a public blockchain (Akhlaghi, 2023). The incorporation of Blockchain and Defi into the crypto domain are just a few of the innovations pushing the industry forward.
With cryptocurrency being one of the fastest growing domains within the Fintech industry, a lot of companies have competed for the top spot in largest exchange in the world. China-based Binance is a global cryptocurrency exchange platform that offers its customers better ACH and wire fees than those of Coinbase. San Francisco-based Kraken is another global cryptocurrency exchange that has raised over $20 million from several investors. Like Binance, Kraken also offers lower fees than Coinbase, as well as many more coins available for staking and rewards to investors. Another example is Bitmain, a company that manufactures cryptocurrency mining hardware like ASIC computers to min Bitcoin and other altcoins (McDonald, 2022). These are only a handful of the many companies involved, and new players are emerging all the time in the rapidly growing industry.

## Results
The business impact of Coinbase has been massive in the recent years. The company's ability to use vast amounts of data flowing into their systems and to predict the longevity of other crypto projects has earned them a top spot in impacting business and finance on a world-scale level. Firstly, Coinbase's large adoption of cryptocurrencies have caused banks and hedge funds to seek out big investments in the crypto space. For example, "55% of the top 100 banks (by assets under management) invested in companies operating in the blockchain and/or digital currency spaces, either directly or through subsidiaries" (Team Blockdata, 2022). There are over 10,000 institutional clients investing in Coinbase currently, and the company manages around $100 billion in AUM. The business impact of Coinbase also resulted in increased competition with Binance, Kraken, and other platforms. This competition has led to innovations like the metaverse, which is a fantastic 3d virtual world where humans can experience life in ways not like the physical world.
Comapnies in the cryptocurrency domain use many metrics to measure success, depending on their business model and specific goals. One metric includes market share, which is the percent of sales in an industry generated by a company. It measures the company's share of the total cryptocurrency market. According to data from fool.com, Coinbase has a market share of about 9.8%, which is massive and indicates that it is one of the largest cryptocurrency markets in the world and only growing. Another metric used in the cryptocurrency industry is transaction fees. Typically, higher transaction fees may generate more pforits for the business, but may discourage investors from putting their money in the business. Maker fees and taker fees are the main fees used by investors to categorize which company is the best to put money into. Coinbase charges a very high maker fee around 1.50%, while Binance only charges 0.1%, which is a major reason why Binance's 24 hour trading volume is almost 15 times that of Coinbase, according to coinmarketcap.com. A third metric used is security. The level of security offered by an exchange is paramount to how successful it is; Digital assets are liable to be stolen in large amounts, and it is the exchange's resposibility to ensure safety for its investors' personal holdings. Platforms with a strong track record of protecting user funds and privacy are seens are much more reliable. According to their website, Coinbase ensures that all customer passwords are "irreversibly hashed using the bcrypt algorithm with a strong work factor" (Coinbase.com). Currently, Coinbase is the safest cryptocurrency exchange in the world, and its security is one reason why its revenue stream remains consistently high.
Coinbase is one of the largest cryptocurrency exchanges in the world, and it is constantly competing with top players in the indutry, including Binance, Kraken, and Bitstamp. First, Coinbase's trading volume is ranked the second most of all cryptocurrency exchanges with an average 24 hour volume of $1.6 billion. Binance reports the highest volume, with an average daily trading volume fo $24 billion. Second, Coinbase outperforms its competition with its global availability in over 100 countries, each with access to thousands of coins to buy and sell. This gives it a significant advantage over companies with geographical limitations like Bitso, which is only available to users in Brazil, Mexico, and Argentina (Cox, 2023). Although Coinbase is always facing stiff competition from evolving companies, the platform still manages to adapt well to changes in user demand and regulatory environments. 
## Recommendations
The cryptocurrency powerhouse that is Coinvase offers many great services and products to its users. The company makes them feel safe with low transaction fees, as well as reliable by offering more coins to be traded than needed for the typical investor. However, any company always has room for improvement. A product I would suggest Coinbase to add would be AI Robo-Advisers to help investors put their money behind the best cryptocurrencies with strong financial reports and customer bases. This would make users feel more comfortable to buy and sell reliable tokens, while also increasing Coinbase's market cap and daily active users due to more institutions wanting to use this added service.
"With advances in technology giving rise to an inflation of new apps, portals, and software platforms designed to provide a more affordable way of looking after your money, Robo-Advisers have been emerging onto the scene for some time now as a way for everybody to gain access to services that were previously reserved for the wealthiest customers in the market" (Murray, 2018). Robo-Advisers is a much cheaper and more efficient way to build and manage funds than traditional financial advice. Traditional Financial Portfolio Managers typically charge around 3% of their clients' portfolios to maintain their services on a yearly basis. This can prove very expensive for a large number of people with little to invest. However, with the rise of Robo-Advisers, investors with low amounts of capital can use AI to invest funds for them at a much lower rate around 0.25% of their portfolio. As a result, an influx of existing and new clients would make a switch to Robo-Advisers, hence largely increasing Coinbase's valuation by almost 40% and market share over its competitors that don't offer the service.
Robo-Advisers, being online platforms that use algorithms to provide financial and investment advice to customers, require some technologies for it to run at peak performance. AI and machine learning systems like Amazon's wes services (AWS) are used to help the adviser generate investment advice and recommendations. Big Data technology is utilized to analyze large volumes of data all at once time, including changing market conditions and client transactions. Cloud computing is also needed for the RA to scale computing services efficiently and handle increasing demand without raising costs for maintenance. Overall, creating a Robo-Adviser requires the utilization of all these technologies, as well as an in-depth understanding in the financial markets. This is all needed for the technology to deliver high-quality investment advice.
In conclusion, Coinbase has become one of the largest cryptocurrency exchanges in the world with millions of investors, both retail and institutional, trading digital assets on the platform. The company has faced a wide variety of technical issues and competition from other exchanges. However, despite these challenges, Coinbase has continued to innovate and largely expand their services to its customers through the development of Coinbase Pro and Coinbase Wallet. Looking forward, Coinbase is very trustworthy to continually capitalize on the growing demand for cryptocurrencies and blockchain technology. With a loyal customer base and strong security, the company is expected to play a leading role in shaping the future of digital currency industry.

